> [!definition] Lebesgue measure
> The ==**Lebesgue measure**== on $\RR$ is the unique measure $\lambda$ on the Borel sets such that $\lambda((a,b]) = b - a$ for all $a,b$.

^66f1be

We're going to construct this thing a la Caratheodory, as is standard apparently. This will be a measure with the following properties:

-   All open sets are measurable.
-   The measure of any interval is its length.
-   Translation invariance.

We will do this in the specific case of $\RR$, with accompanying commentary on the full theory. It turns out that the second condition immediately implies the third.

# Pre-measure

A [[pre-measure]] is a measure with finite strength and countable compatibility. In particular,

> [!definition] Pre-measure on $\RR$
> Let $\LL_0$ be the algebra on $\RR$ generated by the intervals of the form $(a,b]$. Then, the ==**Lebesgue pre-measure**== $\lambda_0$ is defined on $\LL_0$ by $\lambda_0((a,b]) = b - a$ and $\lambda_0((a, \infty)) = \lambda_0((-\infty, a]) = \infty$.

^9d140c

Let's show that this is meaningful, with a whole lot of detail-checking.

> [!part]- Characterizing $\LL_0$
>
> <!-- > For any $a < b < c$, we can take $[b,c]^c\cap [a,c] = [a,b)$ yielding all half-open intervals. Then we can take $(a,b]\cup [b,c) = (a,c)$ yielding all open intervals. We are absolutely never going to care about the difference between open, closed, or half-open intervals; they will all be called \"intervals.\" We'll also call $\{a\} = [a,a]$ an interval, and -->
>
> We'll call $(a,\infty)$ and $(-\infty, a]$ intervals. By definition, $\LL_0$ contains all finite unions of disjoint intervals. Thus, it remains to show that this is closed:
>
> -   complements? Yup.
>
> -   finite intersections? Yup.

> [!part]- Characterizing $\lambda_0$
> For all $A\in \LL_0$ (which can always be written as a finite union of disjoint intervals) we declare $\mu_0(A)$ be the sum of the lengths of the intervals.
>
> <!-- Observe that $\lambda_0([a,a]) = 0$, so we're justified in ignoring the differences between open, closed, and half-open intervals. -->
>
> Now, we would like to show that this extension is **well-defined**; a priori, there are many different ways of partitioning an element of $\LL_0$ into disjoint half-open intervals. Well, suppose some subset $A\in \LL_0$ can be written as $\bigcup_{i\leq n} E_i = \bigcup_{j\leq m} F_i$. Observe that if either $E_i$ or $F_i$ contains an infinite interval, both sides must be infinite, thus we can assume that each side is finite. Well now simply consider the common refinement of the form $G_{ij} = E_i\cap F_j$. Writing both summations in terms of these finite sums concludes.

> [!part]- Showing $\lambda_0$ is a Pre-Measure
> We should now show that this is compatible with **countable additivity**. Suppose $L = \bigsqcup_{j > 0} L_j$, where each $L_j = \bigsqcup_{i\leq n} s^j_i$ is a disjoint finite union of intervals. By definition, I just need to show
>
> $$
>   \sum_{(i,j)} \mu_0(s^j_i) = \mu_0(L).
> $$
>
> The LHS is just a big countable set of intervals, so I'll re-index them to go $1,2,\cdots$. The question reads: suppose $L = \bigsqcup_{k} s_k$, where each $\ell_k$ is an interval. Show that
>
> $$
>   \sum_k \mu_0(s_k) = \mu_0(L).
> $$
>
> Now, $\sum \mu_0(s_k)\leq \mu_0(L)$, because for any _finite_ prefix of $\sum \mu_0(s_k)$, I literally have a finite collection of intervals that I'm summing the lengths of. You can check this case manually if you want. To show $\eps + \sum \mu_0(s_k)\geq \mu_0(L)$ for all $\eps > 0$, we can rewrite as
>
> $$
>   \sum \mu_0(s_k) + \frac{\eps}{2^k} \geq \mu_0(L)
> $$
>
> Then, we can extend each $s_k$ to an open interval $s'_k$ of length $\mu_0(s_k) + \frac{\eps}{2^k}$. Observe that these $s'_k$ cover $L$; in fact, they cover the closure $\overline{L}$. Thus, if $L$ is bounded, then $\overline{L}$ is compact, and thus we can select a finite subcover of $\overline{L}$, which concludes. The remaining case is if $L$ is unbounded. In this case, without loss of generality, $L = [0,\infty)$. If $\sum \mu_0(s_k) = a < \infty$, I can scale all the $s_k$ by any $M$, yielding a contradiction.

Our objective now is to extend $\lambda_0$ to a measure on the Borel sets. This is the content of the [[Caratheodory extension Theorem]].