>[!idea] Note for Experts
>The main takeaway is that monotone non-decreasing right-continuous functions $g:[0,T]\to \RR_+$ are in bijection with finite positive measures $\theta$ on $[0,T]$. This is really deep, because it implies that right-continuous functions have measure-theoretic regularity, not topological regularity, which lends credence to the ubiquity of right-continuous functions in [[Stochastic Calculus Homepage|stochastic calculus]].

Now that we've shown how to construct a _uniform_ distribution over the real line, we can try to make some modifications. Specifically, instead of letting $\mu((a,b]) = b - a$ for all $a,b$ we can let $\mu((a,b]) = F(b) - F(a)$ for some function $F$. This $F$ is then required to satisfy two properties:

1. For any $a < b$, we know $\mu((0, a])\leq \mu((0,b])$. Thus $F(b)\geq F(a)$, and $F$ must be ==**nondecreasing**==.
2. If $x_n \downarrow x$, then the intervals $(0, x_n] \downarrow (0,x]$. $F(x_1) - F(x_0) < \infty$, so by continuity of measures we must have $F(x_n) \downarrow F(x)$. Thus $F$ must be ==**right-continuous**==.

>[!idea]
>Actually, all [[Radon measures]] on $\RR$ must take this form!  The function $F$ is just $F((0, x])$ or $-F((-x, 0])$.
>
>This will be clear by the uniqueness portion of Caratheodory.

> [!definition] Stieltjes Measure Function
> A ==**Stieltjes measure function**== is a function $F: \overline{\RR} \to \RR$ that is nondecreasing and right-continuous.

> [!example] Uniform on the interval
> Take $F(x) = 0$ for $x \leq 0$, $F(x) = x$ for $0\leq x \leq 1$, and $F(x) = 1$ for $x\geq 1$. This is a Stieltjes measure function that gives the uniform distribution on $[0,1]$.

> [!example] Dirac Measure
> Take $F(x) = 0$ for $x < 0$, and $F(x) = 1$ for $x \geq 0$. This is a Stieltjes measure function that gives the Dirac measure at $0$. In particular, this example shows that Stieltjes measure functions do not hae to be left-continuous.

>[!example] Distributions
>Later, we will study random variables and their distributions; these are of course not generally uniform over any interval; as such, they are completely characterized by these Stieltjes measure functions.

And of course, the main theorem is that one can extend any Stieltjes measure function to a measure on the Borel sets.

> [!theorem] Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure
> Let $F$ be a Stieltjes measure function. Then, there exists a unique measure $\mu$ on the Borel sets such that $\mu((a,b]) = F(b) - F(a)$ for all $a,b$.

A la [[Standard Measure Construction]], we simply define our pre-measure.

> [!definition] Lebesgue-Stieljes Pre-measure on $\RR$
> Let $\LL_0$ be the algebra on $\RR$ generated by the intervals of the form $(a,b]$. Then, the ==**Lebesgue-Stieljes pre-measure**== $\lambda_0$ is defined on $\LL_0$ by $\lambda_0((a,b]) = F(b) - F(a)$. To keep things reasonable, $\lambda_0((a,\infty)) = F(\infty) - F(a)$, and $\lambda_0((-\infty, a]) = F(a) - F(-\infty)$.

>[!proof]- Not deep
> $\lambda_0$ is a well-defined pre-measure for identical reasons to the Lebesgue Measure. The results of the [[Caratheodory Extension Theorem]] then imply that there exists a unique measure $\mu$ on the Borel sets such that $\mu((a,b]) = F(b) - F(a)$ for all $a,b$.

# Alternative route

We can also bootstrap a measure on top of the [[Lebesgue Measure]] via the [[pushforward measure]]. Our function $F$ doesn't point the right way for this to work, so we need to take a pseudo-inverse of it first:

>[!claim]
>Let $F:\RR\to \RR$ be non-constant, right-continuous, and non-decreasing. Let $F(\pm \infty) = \lim_{x\to \pm \infty} F(x)$. Let $I = (F(-\infty), F(\infty))$. Then, let $f$ be a sort of inverse of $F$, with ties broken downwards:
>$$
>	f(x) = \inf\left\{y\in \RR: x\leq F(y)\right\}
>$$
>Then:
> - For $x\in I$ and $y\in \RR$, $f(x)\leq y$ iff $x\leq F(y)$; in particular $f$ is Borel measurable.
> - $f$ is left-continuous and non-decreasing.

>[!proof]- Not deep
> If $x\leq F(y)$, then clearly $f(x)\leq y$, it doesn't get more obvious than this.
> 
> If $f(x)\leq y$, then by definition of infimum, there exists a sequence $y_i\downarrow y$ such that $x\leq F(y_i)$ for all $i$. By definition of right continuity, it follows that $x\leq F(y)$.
> 
> This means $f$ is Borel measurable; the pre-image of $(-\infty, y]$ is $(-\infty, F(y)]$.
> 
> $f$ is non-decreasing because if $x < x'$, then $\{y\in \RR: x\leq F(y)\}$ is a strict superset of $\{y\in \RR: x'\leq F(y)\}$. It is left-continuous: suppose $x_i\uparrow x$. Then, suppose all $f(x_i)\leq y$, yet $f(x) > y$. This is absurd, because this means $x_i\leq F(y)$ for all $x_i$, yet $x\not\leq F(y)$.

Now, the induced measure is
$$
	f_\sharp\mu((a,b]) = \mu\left(\{x: a<f(x)\leq b\}\right) = \mu\left((F(a), F(b)]\right) = F(b) - F(a)
$$
which is exactly what we want.