Let us inspect the structure of $\GL_n(\CC)$ on $V^{\otimes N}$. The fundamental idea here is that $S_N$ and $\GL_n(\CC)$ commute and act on $V^{\otimes N}$ simultaneously, yielding rich combinatorial structure.

>[!idea]- Representations are Partitions
>Observe that the highest weights of polynomial representations are non-increasing sequences of nonnegative integers $(\lambda_1,\dots, \lambda_n)$ which are partitions of $\abs{\lambda} = \sum_i \lambda_i$ into $\leq n$ parts. We will say that a partition *fits* if it has $\leq n$ parts. Note that $\abs{\lambda}$ is just the eigenvalue of $\id\in \gl_n$ on $L_\lambda$, and is also the $N$ such that $L_\lambda \in V^{\otimes N}$.

We know that representations of $\GL_n(\CC)$ are completely reducible. $\GL_n(\CC)$ has a natural polynomial representation over $V^{\otimes N}$, which splits naturally into polynomial irreps:$$V^{\otimes N} = \bigoplus_{\lambda: \abs{\lambda} = N} L_\lambda\otimes \pi_\lambda,\qquad \pi_\lambda := \Hom_{\GL_n(\CC)} (L_\lambda, V^{\otimes N}).$$Here, $L_\lambda = 0$ if $\lambda$ doesn't fit. Observe that each $\pi_{\lambda}$ is a representation of $S_n$! Oh my god this is really deep.

>[!idea]- Reminder about basic representation theory
>In representation theory, the $\pi_\lambda$ are called ==**multiplicity spaces**==. By Schur's lemma, any intertwiner must map isomorphically onto some copy of $L_\lambda$ in $V^{\otimes N}$. This might be some linear combination of the $L_\lambda^{\oplus \dim \pi_\lambda}$ generically, but that's why the formula works.

We now let the images of $U(\gl_n)$ and $\CC S_N$ in $\End_\CC(V^{\otimes N})$ be $A$ and $B$, (which we like to call the ==**Schur algebra**== and the ==**centralizer algebra**==). Here's the deep fact:

>[!theorem] Schur-Weyl Duality
>1. The centralizer of $A$ is $B$, and vice-versa.
>2. If $\lambda$ fits, then the representation $\pi_\lambda$ of $\CC_\lambda$ is irreducible. Such representations are pairwise non-isomorphic.
>3. If $\dim V \geq N$ (such that all $\lambda$ fit), then the $\pi_\lambda$ enumerate all irreducible representations of $S_N$.

# Proof of Schur-Weyl Duality

>[!claim] $S^N U$ is spanned by elements $x\otimes,\dots,\otimes x$, $x\in U$.

>[!proof]-
>The span of these vectors forms a nonzero $\GL(U)$-subrep, but $S^N(U)$ was supposed to be irreducible.

>[!claim] Basis bootstrapping $S^NR$
>For any associative algebra $R$ over $\CC$, the algebra $S^NR$ is generated by the elements
>$$\Delta_N(x) = x\otimes1\otimes\dots\otimes1+\dots+1\otimes\dots\otimes1\otimes x$$
>for $x\in R$.

>[!proof]-
>There is some Newton polynomial that computes $z_1z_2\dots z_n$ as a polynomial in $\sum_{i=1}^N z_i^k$ with $k=1,\dots,N$. Then, $x\otimes\dots\otimes x= P_n(\Delta_N(x),\dots,\Delta_N(x^N))$.

The centralizer of $B$ is exactly those elements of $\End_\CC(V^\otimes N)$ which commute with all permutations in $S_N$; by the averaging trick, this is exactly $S_N(\End V)$. By the preceding claim, the centralizer is generated by $\Delta_N(x)$. But this is basically the definition of $A$; each $x\in U(\gl_n)$ gets mapped right to $\Delta_N(x)$!

We observe $\CC[S_n]$, as a group algebra, is semisimple, thus its image $B$ is as well, and the [[Dual Centralizer Lemma]] finishes off the first part. It actually nukes the other two parts as well:
- If $\lambda$ fits, $L_\lambda$ occurs in $V^{\otimes N}$ somewhere, thus $\pi_\lambda \neq 0$.
- If $\dim V \geq N$, then we can pick any independent $v_1,\dots, v_n\in V$, then acting with $\CC S_n$ on $v_1\otimes\dots\otimes v_n$ shows $\CC S_N = B$ (the map is injective).