$\require{physics}\newcommand{\cbrt}[1]{\sqrt[3]{#1}}\newcommand{\sgn}{\text{sgn}}\newcommand{\ii}[1]{\textit{#1}}\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}\newcommand{\EE}{\mathbb E}\newcommand{\PP}{\mathbb P}\newcommand{\Var}{\mathrm{Var}}\newcommand{\Cov}{\mathrm{Cov}}\newcommand{\pperp}{\perp\kern-6pt\perp}\newcommand{\LL}{\mathcal{L}}\newcommand{\pa}{\partial}\newcommand{\AAA}{\mathscr{A}}\newcommand{\BBB}{\mathscr{B}}\newcommand{\FFF}{\mathscr{F}}\newcommand{\GGG}{\mathscr{G}}\newcommand{\HHH}{\mathscr{H}}\newcommand{\Ff}{\mathcal{F}}\newcommand{\Gg}{\mathcal{G}}\newcommand{\Hh}{\mathcal{H}}\DeclareMathOperator{\ess}{ess}\newcommand{\CC}{\mathbb C}\newcommand{\FF}{\mathbb F}\newcommand{\NN}{\mathbb N}\newcommand{\QQ}{\mathbb Q}\newcommand{\RR}{\mathbb R}\newcommand{\ZZ}{\mathbb Z}\newcommand{\KK}{\mathbb K}\newcommand{\SSS}{\mathbb S}\newcommand{\II}{\mathbb I}\newcommand{\conj}[1]{\overline{#1}}\DeclareMathOperator{\cis}{cis}\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left\lvert #1 \right\rvert}\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\left\lVert #1 \right\rVert}\newcommand{\floor}[1]{\left\lfloor #1 \right\rfloor}\newcommand{\ceil}[1]{\left\lceil #1 \right\rceil}\DeclareMathOperator*{\range}{range}\DeclareMathOperator*{\nul}{null}\DeclareMathOperator*{\Tr}{Tr}\DeclareMathOperator*{\tr}{Tr}\newcommand{\id}{1\!\!1}\newcommand{\Id}{1\!\!1}\newcommand{\der}{\ \mathrm {d}}\newcommand{\Zc}[1]{\ZZ / #1 \ZZ}\newcommand{\Zm}[1]{\left(\ZZ / #1 \ZZ\right)^\times}\DeclareMathOperator{\Hom}{Hom}\DeclareMathOperator{\End}{End}\newcommand{\GL}{\mathbb{GL}}\newcommand{\SL}{\mathbb{SL}}\newcommand{\SO}{\mathbb{SO}}\newcommand{\OO}{\mathbb{O}}\newcommand{\SU}{\mathbb{SU}}\newcommand{\U}{\mathbb{U}}\newcommand{\gl}{\mathfrak{gl}}\newcommand{\sl}{\mathfrak{sl}}\newcommand{\so}{\mathfrak{so}}\newcommand{\su}{\mathfrak{su}}\newcommand{\uu}{\mathfrak{u}}\newcommand{\fg}{\mathfrak{g}}\newcommand{\hh}{\mathfrak{h}}\DeclareMathOperator{\Ad}{Ad}\DeclareMathOperator{\ad}{ad}\DeclareMathOperator{\Rad}{Rad}\DeclareMathOperator{\im}{im}\renewcommand{\BB}{\mathcal{B}}\newcommand{\HH}{\mathcal{H}}\DeclareMathOperator{\Lie}{Lie}\DeclareMathOperator{\Mat}{Mat}$
>[!definition] Lie Subgroup
>A ==**Lie Subgroup**== is a subgroup of a Lie group $G$ which is also an [[Immersed Submanifold]].

>[!definition] Closed Lie Subgroup
>A ==**closed Lie Subgroup**== is a subgroup of a Lie group $G$ which is also an [[Embedding|embedded submanifold]].

>[!example]
>So, irrational torus winding is a lie subgroup, but it's not closed.

>[!claim] Why is this called Closed?
>Closed Lie Subgroups are also closed in $G$ (so they are closed embedded submanifolds).

>[!proof]- Verification
>Um, because you're embedded, you're already open in your closure.
>
>However, note that the closure of $H\leq G$ is also a subgroup in itself;
> - The multiplication and inversion functions (in $G$, which $H$ inherits!) are continuous. So yeah.
>This is weird, because any coset of $H$ in $\conj{H}$ is guaranteed to also be open (because translation is a diffeomorphism). Thus $H = \conj{H}$.

>[!idea]
>In fact, it is also true that any closed subgroup of a real Lie group is closed. We will prove this. Er. Eventually. (Maybe)
>
>(This is why we're defining closed Lie subgroups with the stronger definition lol)

This lets us do obvious things that we couldn't before:

>[!example] Local generation
>If $U$ is a neighborhood of $1$ in a connected Lie group $G$, then $U$ generates $G$. This is clear, because the subgroup $H$ generated by $U$ is open. It is also an embedded submanifold, because for all $h\in H$, one can shift any chart $(U, \phi)$ at $1$ to $(hU, \phi\circ h^{-1})$. Thus it is both open and closed, and $H = G$.

>[!example] Homomorphisms are tight
>If $f:G\to K$ is a homomorphism of Lie groups, $K$ is connected, and $df_1:T_1G\to T_1K$ is surjective, then $f$ is surjective. This is true, because by implicit function theorem the image $f(G)$ contains some neighborhood of $1$ in $K$.
>^homomorphisms-tight