---
aliases:
  - transition semigroup
---
Let $Q$ be a [[Markov Kernel]] on $(E,\EEE)$, an operator on $B(E)$. The big idea behind Markov Processes is to iterate this operator.

Specifically,

>[!definition] Transition Semigroup
>A collection $(Q_t)_{t\geq 0}$ of MKs on $E$ is a ==**transition semigroup**== if:
>- For every $x\in E$, $Q_0(x, dy) = \delta_x(dy)$.
>- **Chapman-Kolmogorov Relation:** For every $s,t\geq 0$, $Q_{t+s} = Q_tQ_s$.
>- For every $A\in \EEE$, $(t,x)\mapsto Q_t(x,A)$ is measurable with respect to $\BBB(\RR_+)\otimes \EEE$.

>[!idea]
>- This $Q_0$ is the identity operator on $B(E)$.
>- Explicitly, $$Q_{t + s}(x,A) = \int_E Q_t(x, dy) Q_s(y,A)$$
>- This is a regularity condition, which is not used until we define the **resolvent** below.

Now, fix a filtered probability space.

>[!definition] Markov Process
>A ==**Markov Process**== is an adapted process $X$ on $E$ such that, for every $s,t\geq 0$ and $f\in B(E)$,$$\EE[f(X_{s+t}) | \FFF_s] = Q_t f(X_s).$$

Note that Markov Processes wrt a filtration $\FFF_t$ are automatically Markov Processes wrt $\FFF^X_t$.

>[!idea] Key idea
>The RHS is notably $\sigma(X_s)$-measurable! Hence we obtain that, say, for any $A\in \EEE$,
>$$\PP\left[X_{s+t}\in A | X_r, 0\leq r \leq s\right] = \PP\left[X_{s+t}\in A | X_s\right] = Q_t(X_s,A).$$
>This should be very clearly reminiscent of our naive understanding of Markov Processes.

>[!example] Writing it out
>Let $\gamma(dx)$ be the law of $X_0$. Then, for $0 = t_0 < t_1 < \dots < t_p$, $f_0,\dots, f_p\in B(E)$, $$\EE\left[f_0(X_0)\dots f_p(X_{t_p})\right] = \int \gamma(dx_0)f_0(x_0) \int Q_{t_1}(x_0, dx_1)f_1(x_1)\dots \int Q_{t_p - t_{p-1}}(x_{p-1}, dx_p) f_p(x_p).$$
>
>Obvious.

By the CK relations, we can check that these marginal distributions are compatible. By the [[Kolmogorov Extension]] theorem, so long as $E$ is a separable metric space, we obtain a canonical process $X$ whose finite-dimensional distributions are given by the above, for any $\gamma$ and $(Q_t)_{t\geq 0}$.

>[!idea]- The unimportant details
> 1. The space of all mappings $X: \RR_+\to E$ is denoted $\Omega^* = E^{\RR_+}$, with product $\sigma$-field $\FFF^*$ generated by coordinate mappings.
> 2. We already have the finite-dimensional distributions via $\gamma$ and $(Q_t)_{t\geq 0}$.
> 3. By the KET, we obtain a probability distribution $\PP_\gamma$ on $\FFF^*$. This is not the pushforward of anything, so some people like to call the elements of $\Omega^*$ $\omega$; I think this is too much notation. Each element of $\FFF^*$ is literally a path, hence $X_t = X(t)$ is a canonical process on $\Omega^*$.
> 4. In the specific case $\gamma = \delta_x$, call the associated distribution $\PP_x$ on $\FFF^*$. For each $A\in \FFF^*$, $x\mapsto \PP_x(A)$ is measurable. Furthermore, it is true that $$\PP_\gamma(A) = \int \gamma(dx) \PP_x(A).$$

>[!example] BM
>On $E = \RR^d$, pre-Bownian motion is generated by $$Q_t(x,dy) = \frac{1}{(2\pi t)^{d/2}} e^{-\frac{z^2}{2t}}$$ 

# The Resolvent

>[!definition] Resolvent
>For $\lambda > 0$, the ==**$\lambda$-resolvent**== is the linear operator $R_\lambda: B(E)\to B(E)$ defined via$$R_\lambda f(x) = \int_0^\infty e^{-\lambda t} Q_t f(x) dt.$$

Notably, the regularity condition has been used to ensure $t\mapsto Q_tf(x)$ is $\BBB(\RR_+)\otimes \EEE$-measurable, and hence the integral yields a $\EEE$-measurable function (this is [[Fubini-Tonelli]]). In the future, we will write $R_\lambda = \int_0^\infty e^{-\lambda t} Q_t$ with the obvious action; $R_\lambda$ is the **Legendre Transform** of $Q$. The intuition is that $Q_t = e^{tL}$ for some $L$, such that this is formally $\frac{1}{\lambda - L}$.

>[!claim]
>If $0\leq f\leq 1$, then $0\leq R_\lambda f\leq \frac{1}{\lambda}$. In other words, $\norm{R_\lambda}\leq \frac{1}{\lambda}$, but it also preserves sign; if $0\leq f$, then $0\leq R_\lambda f$.

>[!claim] Resolvent Equation
>If $\lambda, \mu > 0$, then $R_\lambda - R_\mu + (\lambda - \mu)R_\lambda R_\mu = 0$.

You can path-find the solution from the corresponding identity for real numbers (if $Q$ were finite-dimensional, you could spectral).

>[!claim] Supermartingale
>Let $h\in B(E)$ be non-negative and let $\lambda > 0$. Then, $e^{-\lambda t} R_\lambda h(X_t)$ is an $\FFF_t$-supermartingale.

This follows from the quick computation$$\EE\left[e^{-\lambda(t+s)}R_\lambda h(X_{t+s})\right] = e^{-\lambda(t+s)}Q_sR_\lambda h(X_t)\leq e^{-\lambda t}R_\lambda h(X_t).$$