>[!theorem] Levy's Characterization of Brownian Motion
> Let $X$ be an $\RR^d$-valued adapted process with continuous sample paths. Then, $X$ is a $d$-dimensional $\FFF_t$-Brownian motion iff $X$ is a CLM and $\braket{X^i, X^j}_t = \delta_{ij} t$.

In particular, in $1$ dimension, this says that a CLM is a BM iff $M^2_t -t$ is a CLM!

The forward direction is obvious. Conversely, assume $X$ is a CLM such that $\braket{X^i, X^j}_t = \delta_{ij}t$. Pick any $\xi\in \RR^d$. Then, $\xi^\top X_t$ is a CLM (because CLM's form a vector space) with quadratic variation $\abs{\xi}^2t$, and we can consider the [[Exponential CLM|complex CLM]] $\exp\left(i\xi^\top X_t + \frac12 \abs{\xi}^2 t\right)$. This CLM is bounded on every interval $[0,a]$, thus it is a true martingale. Thus, for each $0\leq s < t$,$$
\begin{align*}
\EE\left[\exp\left(i\xi^\top X_t + \frac12 \abs{\xi}^2 t \bigg \vert \FFF_s\right)\right] &= \exp\left(i\xi^\top X_s + \frac12 \abs{\xi}^2 s\right)\\
\implies \EE\left[\exp\left(i\xi^\top\cdot (X_t - X_s\right)\big\vert \FFF_s \right] &= \exp\left( - \frac12 \abs{\xi}^2(t-s)\right)
\end{align*}
$$This is true for all $\xi$, thus $X_t - X_s$ is centered Gaussian with covariance $(t - s)\id$, and $X_t - X_s$ is independent of $\FFF_s$.

>[!proof]- Finish (Details)
>Now, let's be careful about how we use this MGF to show $\sigma(X_t - X_s)\pperp \FFF_s$. For any nonzero $A\in \FFF_s$, $\PP_A(B) = \EE[\id_A\id_B]/\PP(A)$ is a probability measure on $\FFF$. The above is exactly$$\EE_A\left[\exp\left(i\xi^\top (X_t - X_s)\right)\right] = \EE\left[\exp\left(i\xi^\top (X_t - X_s)\right)\right].$$However, the LHS is exactly the MGF of $X_t - X_s$ under $\PP_A$, and the RHS is exactly the MGF of $X_t - X_s$ under $\PP$. Thus, the law of $X_t - X_s$ under $\PP_A$ is exactly the law of $X_t - X_s$ under $\PP$. But this exactly means that $$\PP_A(\{X_t - X_s\in B\}) = \PP\left(\{X_t - X_s\in B\}\right)$$ for $B\in \BBB(\RR)$, and such events generate $\sigma(X_t - X_s)$. Thus we conclude.

This shows $X - X_0$ is a $d$-dimensional BM. It is also clearly independent of $X_0$, thus $X$ is a $d$-dimensional BM. It is adapted with independent increments with respect to $(\FFF_t)$, so we conclude.

>[!idea]- Reminder
>When we say $X - X_0$ is independent of $X_0$, we're talking about $X - X_0$ as a random continuous function. The $\sigma$-algebra of continuous functions is generated by finite cylinder sets, so we would need to show $\PP\left(X_{t_1} - X_0\in A_1, \dots, X_{t_n} - X_0\in A_n\right)\PP(X_0\in B) = \PP\left(X_{t_1} - X_0\in A_1,\dots, X_{t_n} - X_0\in A_n, X_0\in B\right)$.
>
>This is trivial; just remember what the words mean.