We already know that [[Continuous Martingales are Time-Changed Brownian Motion]]. If you don't like changing the time manually, which takes you to a different filtration, perhaps you might try manually dialing the noise into a stochastic integral with respect to $B_s$.

Set the stage: $(\FFF_t)$ on $\Omega$ is the **completed canonical filtration** of a BM $B$ started from $0$.

>[!theorem] Representation Theorem
>For every zero-mean random variable $Z\in L^2(\Omega, \FFF_\infty, \PP)$, there exists a unique progressive process $h\in L^2(B)$ such that $Z = \int_0^\infty h_s dB_s$.

This should be intuitive, if you imagine a dyadic picture of $B$. The proof is below. Upgrade to CLMs:

>[!theorem] CLM Representation Theorem
>For every (not necessarily continuous!) martingale $M$ bounded in $L^2$, there exists a unique process $h\in L^2(B)$ and constant $C$ such that $M = C + h\cdot B$.
>
>For every CLM $M$, there exists a unique process $h\in L^2_{loc}(B)$ and constant $C$ such that $M = C + h\cdot B$.

Indeed, this follows immediately from the representation theorem. The AS-$L^2$ limit $M_\infty \in L^2(\Omega, \FFF_\infty, \PP)$ can be written $M_\infty = \EE[M_\infty] + \int_0^\infty h_s dB_s$. Thus, $M_t = \EE[M_\infty | \FFF_t] = \EE[M_\infty] + \int_0^t h_s dB_s$.

>[!proof]- CLM bootstrap
> If $M$ is a CLM, we make the brief observation that by the [[Brownian Motion with Filtration|Blumenthal 0-1 law]], $M_0$ is AS constant $C\in \RR$. Then, shield space with $T_n = \inf\{t: \abs{M_t}\geq n\}$ and obtain $h^{(n)}$ such that $M^{T_n} = C + h^{(n)}\cdot B$. For $m < n$, our solution $h_s^{(n)}$ can be restricted to a solution $h_s^{(m)} = \id_{s\leq T_m} h_s^{(n)}$. By uniqueness, this agreement holds for all $m < n$, $ds$ AE AS. Thus their $s$ and $\omega$-pointwise limit $h^{(m)}\to h$ satisfies $h_s^{(m)} = \id_{s\leq T_m}(s)h_s$, $ds$ AE AS. For all $\omega$ outside a negligible set, the pointwise limit $\int_0^t \left(H^{(m)}_s\right)^2 d\braket{B,B}_s$ is finite. Thus $h\in L^2_{loc}(B)$. For each fixed $t$, $h_t$ is already unique, so we're done.

>[!idea] Given a $d$-dimensional BM $B = (B^1,\dots, B^d)$, with $\FFF$ the CCF of $B$, the above hold as long as we find tuples of progressive processes $h^i$.

Corollaries:

> [!claim] $(\FFF_t)_{t\geq 0}$ is right-continuous!
> Indeed, any $\FFF_{t+}$-measurable $Z$ can be written $Z = \EE[Z] + \int_0^{t+\eps} h_s dB_s$ for all $\eps > 0$. Taking $\eps\to 0$, we converge in $L^2$ to $\EE[Z] + \int_0^t h_s dB_s$. Thus $Z$ is equal AS to an $\FFF_t$-measurable RV. By completeness of the filtration, $Z$ is $\FFF_t$-measurable.
> 
> Similarly, $(\FFF_t)$ is left-continuous.

>[!claim] All martingales on $(\FFF_t)_{t\geq 0}$ have a modification with continuous sample paths

This is not immediate. Shrug.

# Proof via Exponential Martingales!

Let's call the closed subspace of zero-mean random variables $L^2_0$. Observe that the map $L^2(B)\mapsto L^2_0$ is an isometry:$$\EE\left[\int_0^\infty \left(h_s - h'_s\right)^2 ds\right] = \EE\left[\left(\int_0^\infty h_s dB_s - \int_0^\infty h'_s dB_s\right)^2\right].$$Thus it is injective with closed image. We merely need to show that the image is dense.

To this end, we will use the powerful [[Exponential CLM]], which are really strong in this context because they contain the "eigenvectors." Hear me out: pick some elementary process $f(s) = \sum_{j = 1}^n \lambda_j \id_{(t_{j-1}, t_j]}$ with $\lambda_i\in \RR$, and write down the exponential martingale$$\EEE_t^f = \EEE\left(i f\cdot B\right).$$As a true martingale,$$\exp\left(i\sum_{j = 1}^n \lambda_j\left(B_{t_j} - B_{t_{j-1}}\right) + \frac12 \sum_{j = 1}^n \lambda_j^2 (t_j - t_{j-1})\right) = \EEE^f_\infty = 1 + i \int_0^\infty \EEE_s^f f(s)dB_s.$$Hence, $\exp\left(i\sum_{j = 1}^n \lambda_j\left(B_{t_j} - B_{t_{j-1}}\right)\right)$, minus its mean, lies in $L^2_0$! These fill space:

>[!claim] Exponential increments are dense
>The vector space generated by$$\exp\left(i\sum_{j = 1}^n \lambda_j (B_{t_j} - B_{t_{j-1}})\right)$$ for any $0 = t_0 < \dots < t_n$ and $\lambda_i \in \RR$ is dense in $L^2_\CC(\Omega, \FFF_\infty, \PP)$.

> [!proof]- Sketch
> We use orthogonality as always: if $Z\in L^2$ such that $\EE\left[Z\exp\left(\dots\right)\right] = 0$, then the statement immediately shows the Fourier transform of the complex-valued measure $\mu(F) = \EE[Z \id_F(B_{t_1}, B_{t_2} - B_{t_1}\dots)]$ is identically zero. Thus $\mu = 0$. Thus $\EE[Z\id_A] = 0$ for all $A\in \sigma(B_{t_1},\dots, B_{t_n})$, and monotone class finishes (note that $\FFF$ is complete).